# Gizmaker
Gizmaker utilizes the mapping UI and API built in to the Mudlet client to aid in accomplishing two primary objectives: 1) provision of a visual interface to allow area maps to be viewed and modified during the creation process, and 2) functions necessary to export the data related to these areas into external files formatted and exported for inclusion within DikuMUD.
## Visual Interface (Mudlet)
To save time developing a custom UI for Gizmaker, the project will utilize functionality built in to the Mudlet client for storing and organizing the data needed to define an area. The Mudlet features are designed to be used by players to map existing MUDs while using the client, but will we repurpose them to allow for the creation of new areas while offline.
The fundamental attributes of an Area that can be created and managed using the Mudlet client are: Areas (sometimes called Zones), Rooms, Exits, and Doors. More detailed definitions exist elsewhere in this README but in short an Area is made up of Rooms; Rooms are linked to one another by Exits; some of those Exits may be doors. Mudlet will allow for the creation and visual organization of these elements which should ease the burden of creating areas in a more traditional, text-only setting.
Beyond support for these basic components, Mudlet allows each Room to be extended with an arbitrary set of "User Data" which we will utilize to add additional details needed to define the Rooms. These User Data fields will be critical to populating Rooms with sufficient detail so they can be exported and used in a live DikuMUD environment. The User Data for a room is implemented as a simple key-value table.
## Formatted Export
In order to be successfully deployed into a live DikuMUD environment, data related to each area must exist in a very specific, predfined format including a variety of predefined special characters which identify the fields in a way that allows them to be properly parsed and loaded by the MUD. This is a legacy system that dates to the original development of DikuMUD and is a big reason developing areas for MUDs remains challenging to this day. The goal of Gizmaker will be to abstract this aspect into scripts developed in Lua and Python that translate the data in Mudlet into an exported format which adheres to the DikuMUD standard.
